English:
Sudoku (originally called Number Place) is a logic-based, combinatorial
number-placement puzzle. The objective is to fill a 9x9 grid with digits so that
each column, each row, and each of the nine 3x3 sub-grids that compose the grid
(also called "boxes", "blocks", "regions", or "sub-squares") contains all of the
digits from 1 to 9. The puzzle setter provides a partially completed grid, which
for a well-posed puzzle has a unique solution.

Completed puzzles are always a type of Latin square with an additional constraint
on the contents of individual regions. For example, the same single integer may
not appear twice in the same row, column or in any of the nine 3×3 subregions of
the 9x9 playing board.

French newspapers featured variations of the puzzles in the 19th century, and the
puzzle has appeared since 1979 in puzzle books under the name Number Place.
However, the modern Sudoku only started to become mainstream in 1986 by the
Japanese puzzle company Nikoli, under the name Sudoku, meaning single number.
It first appeared in a US newspaper and then The Times (UK) in 2004, from the
efforts of Wayne Gould, who devised a computer program to rapidly produce
distinct puzzles.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudoku

Vietnamese
Theo Tim Preston, giam doc Puzzler Media - nha xuat ban cac tap chi va sach cau do
lon nhat cua nuoc Anh thi Sudoku la phat minh cua nha toan hoc the ky 18 Leonhard
Euler, la nguoi goc Basel (Thuy Si). Euler da dua ra tro choi Hinh vuong Latinh.
Theo do, nguoi choi phai sap xep cac con so sao cho chung khong duoc trung lap
theo chieu ngang lan chieu doc.

Trong nhieu nam chi co gioi toan hoc moi biet den Hinh vuong Latinh. Den nam 1970,
nha xua ban Dell cua My da dua Hinh vuong Latinh vao nhung tap sach do, va dat
ten la "Vi tri con so". Sau do, tro choi nay duoc dua toi Nhat va duoc nha xuat
ban Nikoli doi ten thanh Sudoku.

Luoi (ban co) Sudoku nguyen thuy co dang 9x9 voi 9 hang, 9 cot va 9 vung, moi
vung co 3x3 o vuong. Thong thuong, mot vai o duoc danh so chinh xac, nhung o do 
chinh la dau moi giup nguoi choi tim ra loi giai, luu y khong duoc thay doi gia
tri cua cac o nay.